# [Go tips](https://github.com/mentaLwz/gitblogOfMental/issues/26)

* new(T) - Allocates memory, and sets it to the zero value for type T..
new分配内存， 对于整数是0，字符串是空字符串，对于slice，map，channel（referenced type 引用类型）则是nil
由于引用类型的底层数据结构也是指针，所以 new([]int)这种操作不会给切片分配内存空间（返回的是slice的指针）
* make(T) 则对于引用类型分配内存后，并对其底层数据结构初始化（length capacity）。如，make([]int, 5)返回的非指针而是slice




---

Go 都是传值

Pass by pointer vs pass by value
Strictly speaking, there is only one way to pass parameters in Go - by value. Every time a variable is passed as parameter, a new copy of the variable is created and passed to called function or method. The copy is allocated at a different memory address.



```
package main

import "fmt"

type Person struct {
    firstName string
    lastName  string
}

func changeName(p *Person) {
    p.firstName = "Bob"
}

func main() {
    person := Person {
        firstName: "Alice",
        lastName: "Dow",
    }

    changeName(&person)

    fmt.Println(person)
}
output:
{Bob Dow}


```
In this case, variable person in function main is modified inside function changeName. This happens because &person and p are two different pointers to the same struct which is stored at the same memory address.

切片和map，channel都应该是传值，但他们是引用类型
Variable is a map or slice
Maps and slices are reference types in Go and should be passed by values.


Passing by value often is cheaper
Even though Go looks a bit like C, its compiler works differently. And C analogy does not always work with Go. Passing by value in Go may be significantly cheaper than passing by pointer. This happens because Go uses escape analysis to determine if variable can be safely allocated on function’s stack frame, which could be much cheaper then allocating variable on the heap. Passing by value simplifies escape analysis in Go and gives variable a better chance to be allocated on the stack.

https://goinbigdata.com/golang-pass-by-pointer-vs-pass-by-value/










---

## MaxInt64 是 numeric constant
There are boolean constants, rune constants, integer constants, floating-point constants, complex constants, and string constants. Rune, integer, floating-point, and complex constants are collectively called numeric constants.

A constant value is represented by a rune, integer, floating-point, imaginary, or string literal, an identifier denoting a constant, a constant expression, a conversion with a result that is a constant, or the result value of some built-in functions such as unsafe.Sizeof applied to any value, cap or len applied to some expressions, real and imag applied to a complex constant and complex applied to numeric constants. The boolean truth values are represented by the predeclared constants true and false. The predeclared identifier iota denotes an integer constant.

In general, complex constants are a form of constant expression and are discussed in that section.

Numeric constants represent exact values of arbitrary precision and do not overflow. Consequently, there are no constants denoting the IEEE-754 negative zero, infinity, and not-a-number values.

Constants may be typed or untyped. Literal constants, true, false, iota, and certain constant expressions containing only untyped constant operands are untyped.

A constant may be given a type explicitly by a constant declaration or conversion, or implicitly when used in a variable declaration or an assignment or as an operand in an expression. It is an error if the constant value cannot be represented as a value of the respective type.

An untyped constant has a default type which is the type to which the constant is implicitly converted in contexts where a typed value is required, for instance, in a short variable declaration such as i := 0 where there is no explicit type. The default type of an untyped constant is bool, rune, int, float64, complex128 or string respectively, depending on whether it is a boolean, rune, integer, floating-point, complex, or string constant.

Implementation restriction: Although numeric constants have arbitrary precision in the language, a compiler may implement them using an internal representation with limited precision. That said, every implementation must:

Represent integer constants with at least 256 bits.
Represent floating-point constants, including the parts of a complex constant, with a mantissa of at least 256 bits and a signed binary exponent of at least 16 bits.
Give an error if unable to represent an integer constant precisely.
Give an error if unable to represent a floating-point or complex constant due to overflow.
Round to the nearest representable constant if unable to represent a floating-point or complex constant due to limits on precision.

https://golang.org/ref/spec#Constants